docs/index.rst, before:

Welcome to Gaphor's documentation!
==================================

Some highlights of the documentation:

* A :doc:`manual <manual/index>`. It outlines some of the ideas in and behind Gaphor.
* The :ref:`tech-section` contains some interesting articles about the technology that drives Gaphor and Gaphas, Gaphor's canvas widget.

If you're into writing plug-ins for Gaphor you should have a look at our
fabulous `Hello world <http://github.com/gaphor/gaphor.plugins.helloworld>`_
plug-in.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

   manual/index

Setting up a development environment, and packaging Gaphor on different
platforms:

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1

   windows
   linux
   macos

.. _tech-section:

Tech section
------------

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1

   framework
   model
   stereotypes
   datamodel
   connect
   items
   services
   so
   storage
   undo
   xml-format
   event_system

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

External links
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* You should definitely check out http://www.agilemodeling.com.

  * The `UML diagrams <http://www.agilemodeling.com/essays/umlDiagrams.htm>`_ (although Gaphor does not see it that black-and-white).
  * http://www.agilemodeling.com/essays/
* The `official UML specification <https://www.omg.org/spec/UML>`_. This ''is'' our data model.

Commit message:

Cleanup references to the manual and update links
Signed-off-by: Dan Yeaw <dan@yeaw.me>

docs/index.rst, after:

The Gaphor Technical Documentation
==================================

This documentation is aimed at those who would be interested in making
contributions to Gaphor. For tutorials and how-to information, please visit the
`Gaphor Website <https://gaphor.org>`_.

In the future, we would like to split the documentation in to sections that
focus on *explanation** (understanding-oriented) and **reference**
(information-oriented). For now, this information is all together.

If you're into writing plug-ins for Gaphor you should have a look at our
fabulous `Hello world <https://github.com/gaphor/gaphor.plugins.helloworld>`_
plug-in.

Platforms
---------

Setting up a development environment, and packaging Gaphor on different
platforms:

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1

   windows
   linux
   macos

.. _tech-section:

Tech section
------------

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1

   framework
   model
   stereotypes
   datamodel
   connect
   items
   services
   so
   storage
   undo
   xml-format
   event_system

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

External links
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* You should definitely check out http://www.agilemodeling.com.

  * The `UML diagrams <http://www.agilemodeling.com/essays/umlDiagrams.htm>`_ (although Gaphor does not see it that black-and-white).
  * http://www.agilemodeling.com/essays/
* The `official UML specification <https://www.omg.org/spec/UML>`_. This ''is'' our data model.
