docs/services.md, before:

# Services

Gaphor is modeled around the concept of Services. Each service can be
registered with the application and then be used by other services or
other objects living within the application.

Each service should implement the Service interface. This interface
defines one method:

    init(application)

where application is the Application object for Gaphor (which is a
service itself and therefore implements Service too.

Each service is allowed to define its own interface, as long as Service
is implemented too.

Services should be defined as entry_points in the Egg info file.

Typically a service does some work in the background.

## Example: ElementFactory

A nice example is the ElementFactory. Currently it is tightly bound to
the gaphor.UML module. A default factory is created in __init__.py.

It depends on the undo_manager. However, on important events, events
are emitted. (That is when an element is created/destroyed).

What you want to do is create an event handler for ElementFactory that
stores the add/remove signals in the undo system.

The same goes for UML.Elements. Those classes (or more specific the
properties) send notifications every time their state changes.

But.. where to put such information?

```eval_rst
.. autoclass:: gaphor.UML.elementfactory.ElementFactory
```

## Plugins

Currently a plugin is defined by an XML file. This will change as
plugins should be distributable as Eggs too. A plugin will contain user
interface information along with its service definition.

See also: [Writing plugins](manual/plugins.md)

Commit message:

Update docs for services, service oriented arch, and multidispatch
Signed-off-by: Dan Yeaw <dan@yeaw.me>

docs/services.md, after:

# Services

Gaphor is modeled around the concept of Services. Each service can be
registered with the application and then be used by other services or
other objects living within the application.

Each service should implement the Service interface. This interface
defines one method:

    init(application)

where application is the Application object for Gaphor (which is a
service itself and therefore implements Service too.

Each service is allowed to define its own interface, as long as Service
is implemented too.

Services should be defined as entry_points in the `pyproject.toml` file.

Typically a service does some work in the background.

## Example: ElementFactory

A nice example of a service in use is the ElementFactory. Currently it is
tightly bound to the `gaphor.UML` module. A default factory is created in
`__init__.py`.

The ElementFactory depends on the undo_manager. When an important events
occurs, like an element is created or destroyed, that event is emitted.
We then use an event handler for ElementFactory that stores the add/remove
signals in the undo system. Another example of events that are emitted are with
`UML.Elements`. Those classes, or more specifically, the properties, send
notifications every time their state changes.

```eval_rst
.. autoclass:: gaphor.UML.elementfactory.ElementFactory
```

## Plugins

Currently a plugin is defined by an XML file. This will change as
plugins should be distributable as Eggs too. A plugin will contain user
interface information along with its service definition.

See also: [Writing plugins](manual/plugins.md)
